Name: Liam Ninger
Period: 2

Write your essay here...
One of the many computers that you could find around my house is my Nintendo Switch. It’s not an ordinary gaming console solely because of the fact that it’s portable. The Nintendo Switch has the processing power of a traditional console while being the size of an ordinary tablet. The Switch can take inputs in many different ways. One of the main ways in which the Switch obtains inputs from the user is through the controllers, called joy cons, that can be placed on the side rails of the tablet or can be taken off of the tablet if the Switch is displaying its screen on a television or any other monitor via HDMI. The Joy-Cons send the switch different inputs like A, B, X, Y, and the direction of the joystick through the circuit board inside of the controllers that registers the change in pressure or the shift in the joystick as an input and sends that signal to the Switch via bluetooth. The Joy-Cons have a few other neat tricks in them: the Joy-Cons have motion sensors that, in games that are compatible with it, act as an alternative to the left joystick. So instead of pressing up on the left joystick, you can raise the controllers up and the Switch will register both inputs as the same input, which could act as looking up or aiming in some video games. The right Joy-Con has a few neat tricks of its own. It contains an infrared camera built into the bottom of it. Now this kinda seems like a pointless feature, right? Why would a controller need a camera? Especially an infrared camera? Well the infrared camera obviously tracks its surroundings, but it can also measure distance and it is motion sensitive. Which is really cool in some first person shooters were you can physically go through the motions of reloading the weapon.Now the Switch wouldn’t be a tablet if it didn’t have a touch screen. The Switch can take in motions like a swipe across the screen as the same input as if you were holding the left joystick to the right or left, and a tap of the screen registers identically to clicking A on the controller. While not looking like a traditional computer, it can accept inputs and run programs in the same way that a traditional computer can.
